librbd: shared read-only cache hook (#27285)
ceph/ceph: doc/rbd/rbd-persistent-cache.rst

If there's a read that's not cached, the daemon will promote the RADOS object
to local caching directory, so the next read on that object will be serviced
from local file. The daemon also maintains simple LRU statistics so if there's
not enough capacity it will delete some cold cache files.

Here are some important cache options correspond to the following settings:

- ``immutable_object_cache_path`` The immutable object cache data directory.

- ``immutable_object_cache_max_size`` The max size for immutable cache.

- ``immutable_object_cache_watermark`` The watermark for the cache. If the
  capacity reaches to this watermark, the daemon will delete cold cache based
  on the LRU statistics.

The ``ceph-immutable-object-cache`` daemon is available within the optional
``ceph-immutable-object-cache`` distribution package.

.. important:: ``ceph-immutable-object-cache`` daemon requires the ability to
   connect RADOS clusters.

``ceph-immutable-object-cache`` daemon should use a unique Ceph user ID.
To `create a Ceph user`_, with ``ceph`` specify the ``auth get-or-create``
command, user name, monitor caps, and OSD caps::

>   ceph auth get-or-create client.ceph-immutable-object-cache.{unique id} mon r osd 'profile rbd-read-only'

Reviewer: "mon r" is not a valid cap

=======================
 RBD Persistent Cache
=======================

.. index:: Ceph Block Device; Persistent Cache

> Shared Read-only Parent Image Cache

Reviewer: Need commas between coordinate adjectives

```suggestion
Shared, Read-only Parent Image Cache
```

===================================

> Cloned RBD images(`rbd-snapshots`_) from one parent usually only modify a small

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Cloned RBD images`_ from a parent usually only modify a small
```

> portion of the image. E.g., in a VDI workload, the VMs are using the same cloned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
portion of the image. For example, in a VDI workload, the VMs are cloned from the same base
```

> images with only hostname and IP address changed most likely. On the booting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image and initially only differ by hostname an IP address. During the booting
```

> stage, all of these VMs would read the parent content from the RADOS cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stage, all of these VMs would re-read portions of duplicate parent image data from the RADOS cluster.
```

If we have a local cache of the parent image, this will help to speed up the

> read process on one host as well as to save the south-north network traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
read process on one host, as well as to save client to cluster network traffic.
```

> RBD shared read-only parent image cache requires expeclictly enabling in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RBD shared read-only parent image cache requires explicitly enabling in
```

> ceph.conf. The ``ceph-immmutable-object-cache`` daemon is responsible for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``ceph.conf``. The ``ceph-immmutable-object-cache`` daemon is responsible for
```

> caching the parent content on local disk, and future reads on those contents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
caching the parent content on the local disk, and future reads for that data
```

will be serviced from the local cache.

.. note:: RBD shared read-only parent image cache requires the Ceph Nautilus release or later.

.. ditaa::  +--------------------------------------------------------+
            |                       QEMU                             |
            +--------------------------------------------------------+

>             |             librbd(cloned images)                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            |             librbd (cloned images)                     |
```

            +-------------------+-+----------------------------------+

>             |      librados     | |    ceph-immutable-object-cache   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            |      librados     | |    ceph--immutable--object--cache   |
```

Reviewer: The hyphens appear to be confusing the doc rendering

            +-------------------+ +----------------------------------+
            |      OSDs/Mons    | |     Local cached parent image    |
            +-------------------+ +----------------------------------+

Enable RBD Shared Read-only Parent Image Cache
----------------------------------------------

To enable RBD shared read-only parent image cache, the following Ceph settings
need to added in the ``[client]`` section `ceph-conf`_ of your ``ceph.conf``
file.

``rbd parent cache enabled = true``

Immutable Object Cache Daemon
=============================

The ``ceph-immutable-object-cache`` daemon is responsible for caching parent
image content within its local caching directory. For better performance it's
recommended to use SSDs as the underlying storage.

The key components of the daemon are:

#. **Domain socket based IPC:** The daemon will listen on a local domain
   socket on start up and wait for connections from librbd clients.

> #. **LRU based promotion/demotion policy:** The daemon will maintain a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. **LRU based promotion/demotion policy:** The daemon will maintain
```

>    in-memory statics of cache-hit on each cache file. It will demote the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   in-memory statistics of cache-hits on each cache file. It will demote the
```

>    cold cache if capacity reaches to some threshold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   cold cache if capacity reaches the configured threshold.
```

> #. **File based caching store:** The daemon will maintain a simple file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. **File-based caching store:** The daemon will maintain a simple file
```

   based cache store. On promotion the RADOS objects will be fetched from

>    RADOS cluster and stored on local caching directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   RADOS cluster and stored in the local caching directory.
```

> On the opening of each cloned rbd image, librbd will try to connect to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On opening each cloned rbd image, ``librbd`` will try to connect to the
```

> cache daemon over domain socket based IPC. If it's successfully connected,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cache daemon over its domain socket. If it's successfully connected,
```

> librbd will automatically check with the daemon on the following reads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``librbd`` will automatically check with the daemon on subsequent reads.
```

> If there's read that's not cached, the daemon will promote the RADOS object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there's a read that's not cached, the daemon will promote the RADOS object
```

> to local caching directory. So the next read on that object will be serviced

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to local caching directory so the next read on that object will be serviced
```

> from local file. The daemon also maintains a simple LRU statics so if there's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from local file. The daemon also maintains simple LRU statistics, so if there's
```

not enough capacity it will delete some cold cache files.

Here are some important cache options correspond to the following settings:

> ``immutable_object_cache_path``

Reviewer: Weird markup for these three options in the resulting document

  The immutable object cache data directory.

``immutable_object_cache_max_size``
  The max size for immutable cache.

``immutable_object_cache_watermark``
  The watermark for the cache. If the capacity reaches to this watermark, the
  daemon will delete cache files based the LRU statics.

The ``ceph-immutable-object-cache`` daemon is available within the optional
``ceph-immutable-object-cache`` distribution package.

.. important:: ``ceph-immutable-object-cache`` daemon requires the ability to
   connect RADOS clusters.

``ceph-immutable-object-cache`` daemon should use a unique Ceph user ID.
To `create a Ceph user`_, with ``ceph`` specify the ``auth get-or-create``
command, user name, monitor caps, and OSD caps::

>   ceph auth get-or-create client.ceph-immutable-object-cache.{unique id} mon 'profile immutable-object-cache' osd 'profile rbd'

Reviewer: Probably can use the ```profile rbd-read-only```?

>   ceph auth get-or-create client.ceph-immutable-object-cache.{unique id} mon 'profile immutable-object-cache' osd 'profile rbd'

Reviewer: The ```immutable-object-cache``` profile does not exist.

The ``ceph-immutable-object-cache`` daemon can be managed by ``systemd`` by specifying the user
ID as the daemon instance::

  systemctl enable ceph-immutable-object-cache@immutable-object-cache.{unique id}

The ``ceph-immutable-object-cache`` can also be run in foreground by ``ceph-immutable-object-cache`` command::

  ceph-immutable-object-cache -f --log-file={log_path}

> .. _rbd-snapshots: ../rbd-snapshot/#layering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _Cloned RBD images: ../rbd-snapshot/#layering
```
